//nodemon:

nodemon is a tool that automatically restarts your Node.js server whenever you make changes in your code.

//Database Connection:

1. Handling database errors (try-catch)
Sometimes data is missing or the database fails.
So we must wrap database code inside try–catch.
Key point: “Database can fail anytime → always use try–catch.”

2. Use async/await for database queries
Database is slow because it's running on another server.
Normal code will block and wait, which is bad.
Using async/await lets the program continue without blocking.
Key point: “Database is far → always use async/await.”


database connection is asyncronous task so it always returns a Promise. 
so .then and .catch is imp:

What does .then() do?:
.then() runs only when the Promise is successful.

Meaning:

MongoDB connection success → .then() runs

MongoDB connection fail → .catch() runs

Why we listen to server inside .then()?

Because you MUST start the server only after the database connects.

✔ If DB is connected → Start server
✘ If DB fails → Don’t start server

Otherwise your app will run without DB and give errors.


app.use(express.urlencoded({extended:true})):

data jab bhi url me aata he to problem ho jata he so we use urlencoded to read data
express.urlencoded() is used only to read data sent from HTML <form> submits.mtlb form se jo bhi data jata he url encoded format me jata he aur express use read nahi kr pata
use read krne ke liye express urlencoded ka use krta he
ex:  username=suraj&password=1234
This is called URL-encoded data, and Express needs express.urlencoded() to read it.
Without it → req.body will be empty

extended: false	supports only simple values (strings, numbers)
extended: true	supports nested objects & arrays

//--------------tricky note of react state update------------
setState() does not update immediately.
React schedules the update in its internal updation queue.
React batches updates (multiple state update of same component).
React re-renders the component.
During the next render, you get the new updated state.

//-------------apiError Class------------

ApiError is a custom error class used in backend projects.
It helps us send consistent error responses.
It extends the default Error class but adds extra fields like status code,
errors array, success flag, etc. 
So whenever something goes wrong in the API, instead of throwing a normal error,
we throw ApiError which contains all information needed for the frontend.

/--------------apiResponse Class----------

ApiResponse standardizes the format of successful API responses.
It adds statusCode, data, message, and sets success = statusCode < 400.
This helps maintain consistency across the entire backend.


//----------bcrypt-------------------
  bcrypt = a password hashing library.
   It is used to secure passwords before saving them to the database.

// How bcrypt works (simple)
    1 User enters password
    2 bcrypt adds "salt" (random string) 
    Salt = a random string added to your password before hashing.
    3 bcrypt hashes the password + salt
    4 Only the hash is saved in DB
    5 During login → bcrypt compares hash with raw password

//--------------pre hook----------------
it is mongodb middleware
To automatically do something before saving or updating data.

Common uses:

✔ Hash password before saving
✔ Update timestamps
✔ Remove unwanted fields
✔ Apply filters to every query
✔ Validate data

while using pre we cant use arrow function for callback as we we know 
arow function doesnt have access to this and here we have to use this
so we can refer schema in this context

//-----------access & refresh token---------------------

Token|	        Purpose	 |          Lifetime|	Sent with every request?
Access Token	Authenticate user	    Short	     Yes
Refresh Token	Get new access token	Long	     No

JWT:
A JSON Web Token (JWT) is a secure way to send information between a client and a server

/*A JWT consists of three parts, separated by dots (.)
Header. Payload. Signature
header is autogenerated
signature is generated using the header, payload, and a secret key*/

//-------------MIDDLEWARES----------------




